A man does not turn away from stale bread when he is starving to death.
A rich man thinks all others are rich, and an intelligent man thinks all others are similarly gifted. Both are terribly shocked when they discover the truth of the world.
A thousand nights, a thousand years lay before me. Without her.
According to popular legend, an eager student once attempted to summon some form of invisible servant. When it came, thing was invisible all right—and rather hungry.
Ah, it is the fault of our knowledge that it wants to explain all; and if it explain not, then it says there is nothing to explain.
Alek Gwilym asked me if I remembered being so eager for blood. I still am, Commander. Can you not tell?
All succumb to the shadows of Barovia; you are no different.
Along with the sharp joy of love, I was being cut in twain by the razor edge of despair, and I was unable to conceal the pain.
And so you, like the others, would play your brains against mine. You would help these men to hunt me and frustrate me in my designs!
And the hunt for my successor goes on.
And yet, I still rule the land.
And you are now to me flesh of my flesh, blood of my blood, kin of my kin; my bountiful wine-press for awhile; and shall later on be my companion and my helper.
And, to my bitter grief, with a shock and in silence, he died, a gallant gentleman.
Any other time, they would have put me to the sword—the standard fate of a thief in this land—but as final arbiter of my own laws, I could make changes as I saw fit.
As age had been eliminated for me, only death remained, measured out in palatable doses that lasted from sunrise to sunset.
As she approached, I came to see that she was as beyond beauty as a river in spring flood is beyond a drop of water.
As surrender had been, so was black despair once an alient concept to me. Now I was as familiar with both as with my own features, for there they were in my mirror, gazing back at me every day.
Be welcome and look upon this as your true home, forevermore.
Beware; for I am fearless, and therefore powerful.
Blackness surged up and clouded my brain for a time. This had happened before and was becoming more frequent.
Blood warms the heart. It’s like mulled wine, but with more screaming.
Blood. A fountain of it. Life. If I dared to take it. As my own life ebbed, I dared not refuse. I drank. Deeply.
Bravo! I have long been a lover of tragedy.
Break out the du le Stomp, Rahadin. This is a day to celebrate.
But hers was the misery of innocence, which, like a cloud that passes over the fair moon, for a while hides, but cannot tarnish its brightness.
By trial and error, I learned just how much to take to feed myself, yet not kill. There was no mercy in my self-discipline, only hunger—for over-indulgence would have quickly deprived me of a stocked larder.
Careful, now. If killing has not satisfied you yet, it never will.
Children have their playthings, men have their women, and I have you.
Clerics are little more than signposts, pointing out a way for others that they never go themselves.
Cornered animals make the drollest sounds.
Dear child, I am no liar. We both know deception is for the weak.
Death is cold.
Death is not beyond me, if I chose to reach for it.
Death snatches away many blooming children, the only hopes of their doting parents.
Despair has its own calms.
Despite my ghoulish reputation, I really have the heart of a small boy. I keep it in a jar on my desk.
Dinner is served.
Do not imagine that you are the first to invade my realm.
Do you believe in destiny? That even the powers of time can be altered for a single purpose? That the luckiest man who walks on this earth is the one who finds… true love?
Do you feel remorse? I never quite grasped its utility.
Do you have the courage to bore me? Broken toys are easily discarded.
Do you hear them crying out "villain" and "devil"? They speak not of me.
Do you not think that there are things which you cannot understand, and yet which are; that some people see things that others cannot?
Doctor, you don’t know what it is to doubt everything, even yourself. No, you don’t; you couldn’t with a soul like yours.
Does it trouble you to know that you will die weeping?
Euthanasia is an excellent and comforting word. I am grateful to whoever invented it.
Even devils have emotions. Then again, perhaps not.
Even the greatest men and women bleed. One might say only.
Failure is hardly a surprise at this point.
Faith is that faculty which enables us to believe things which we know to be untrue.
Fear not; your suffering will soon be over.
For a moment my soul was elevated from its debasing and miserable fears; but the iron had eaten into my flesh, and I sank again, trembling and hopeless, into my miserable self.
Futility is a strange thing. We hate it, and crave it, because there is nothing else.
Have you ever noticed how willingly cattle fatten themselves?
Have you figured out which of your friends is a traitor?
He means to succeed, and a man who has centuries before him can afford to wait and to go slow.
He screamed, but I heard nothing, deafened as I was by the roar of his rushing blood.
He still lived, but was too far lost for awareness. He could not have felt it as I dragged the edge firmly across his throat.
Hell is empty and all the devils are here.
Her returning smile was like that first glimpse of sun after a bitter winter. All I wanted to do for the rest of my life was keep that smile on her ever after.
His blood races through me like wind and fire, like the hot rage of battle, with its delirious blending of terror and joy.
His blood was the sweet savory one keeps to brighten up the end of a dull meal.
Hope is the armor of fools.
Horror is only the removal of masks.
How does it feel to know that even your triumphs will be forgotten?
How many brides and youthful lovers have been one day in the bloom of health and hope, and the next a prey for worms and the decay of the tomb!
Human desires being what they are, one would think the ritual for casting a love-spell or creating a love-philter would be more common, but my books were bereft of such things.
I already knew I was beyond you. Now you have proven it.
I always deal fairly with my guests; you shall get what you deserve.
I am a patient man, but the days of your wickedness are numbered.
I am all in a sea of wonders. I doubt; I fear; I think strange things, which I dare not confess to my own soul.
I am going to take my time. After all, you are taking yours.
I am lord and law here, and I will not suffer any incursions against me, whatever their form.
I am pleased with your progress.
I am the late Strahd von Zarovich. Soon you will be late as well.
I could have cried aloud from the agony she so innocently gave me.
I could have drained each to the dregs and still hungered.
I could not die, but they would. Before another hour passed, I would send them wailing on their way to rotting hell. All of them.
I don’t want the people believing they can just drop their tools and make merry whenever it pleases them, or we’ll have no end of holidays to endure.
I expect my subjects to be honest in their dealings with each other, but most especially with me.
I felt my heart swoop and soar at the sheer joy of looking at her.
I felt strength such as I had never known before, tearing through my veins like heat lightning.
I felt the blood rushing through her like the rolling thunder of a summer storm.
I had such plans for you.
I have always been humane, yet the killing years have eroded my patience.
I have been so long master that I would be master still, or at least that none other should be master of me.
I have filled graveyards with fools such as you.
I have gained more knowledge out of the folly of you madmen than from the writings of the most wise.
I have murdered the lovely and the helpless; I have strangled the innocent as they slept, and grasped to death his throat who never injured me or any other living thing.
I have resigned myself to the soothing forgetfulness of death, having little other choice. It is better than sleep.
I have something special planned for you. Your friends, on the other hand...
I held him easily and resumed my meal, this time with his fear adding a piquant flavor to the blood.
I know that your situation is grave, but rest assured; this is a game to me.
I look forward to our meeting tonight; take care not to wake the others.
I look on the hands which executed the deed; I think on the heart in which the imagination of it was conceived, and long for the moment when that imagination will haunt my thoughts no more.
I looked at my brother and saw myself in him, myself as I should have been.
I must admit, I thought you had more fight in you.
I raised the nearest struggling man up and, with the greatest of pleasure, tore into his throat. And fed.
I sensed something else stirring all around me, like a wind that one feels only in the mind... Magic. Necromancy. I’d done more this night than kill my brother and drink his blood.
I shall have to teach you civility before I drain you.
I took one of her hands, and she straightened—how like a tall flower she was—and with a bow, lightly kissed her fingertips.
I want to cut off his head and take out his heart.
I want you to believe... to believe in things that you cannot.
I was benevolent and good; misery made me a fiend. Make me happy, and I shall again be virtuous.
I was dealing with something far beyond my experience in magic and needed no sage to tell me it was deadly.
I was hoping you would live long enough to witness my plans. Pity.
I was not even able to attend the burial of my parents. Their deaths had occurred during the height of a particularly close and bitter campaign, and I could not be spared.
I wished sometimes to shake off all thought and feeling, but I learned that there was but one means to overcome the sensation of pain, and that was death - a state which I feared yet did not understand.
I wonder which one of you is missing your soul.
I would be lying if I said that nothing is watching you. I would also be telling the truth.
I would wager you never expected it to end this way. Perhaps you should have.
I, Strahd, am the Land.
If a lord does not mete out justice, who will?
If I’d had to kill a dozen brothers, drink a river of their blood to have her, I would have done so.
If only you knew how near I am to you. Always.
If the gods cannot enter my domain, then whose divinity are you channeling, I wonder?
If you are trying to impress me, you have failed.
If you endeavor to do something, do it well.
If you will comply with my conditions, I will leave them and you at peace; but if you refuse, I will glut the maw of death, until it be satiated with the blood of your remaining friends.
In those years of peace, the truth had grown upon my soul like some parasitic plant run wild.
Is gold truly all your life is worth?
Is it the gloom in the sky or the fear in your heart that makes you drowse?
It is not a lack of skill but of conviction that condemns you.
It is not that I begrudged Sergei his own life, but that mine had been all but spent, sacrfiiced to duty and obligation.
It is only when a man feels himself face to face with such horrors that he can understand their true import.
It is wonderful what tricks our dreams play us, and how conveniently we can imagine.
It was as if the sun that had favored me had been all along hidden by a cloud. Its brilliant glory now shone in full upon him... and him alone.
It was over very quickly, raising a collective gasp from the crowd since it is something of a shock to see how far the blood spurts when a head is expertly severed.
It writhed and twisted and pulsed without rhythm—pleasure from pain, pain from pleasure—and it murmured of things still darker than itself.
Learn to kill and mind the details. It is not unlike mending greaves. The first time, you are careful. By the thirteenth time, you forget where you left the awl.
Like as not the peasants will use the time away from their fields to clean out their stocks of tuika and spend the following day struggling to recover from the debauch.
Listen to them, the children of the night. What music they make!
Loneliness will sit over our roofs with brooding wings.
Love is how we choose where our spirit will break.
Love is, after all, a selfish thing; and it throws a black shadow on anything between which and the light it stands.
Luck is a funny thing. For it to run out, there has to be some first.
May the day’s good fortune console the anguish of your passing.
Mine was a just war, and we tread on its spoils.
Most men are not wicked; they are sleepwalkers. Only the wakeful can be truly malicious.
Much has happened since then, but little has changed. The people still farm or tend flocks. They fear me, but are obedient. Life for most is hard, but at least they know things are far more difficult elsewhere.
Murder is not about lust, and it’s not about violence. It’s about possession.
Murder ought to turn your stomach, but it is geting easier, is it not?
My condolences on the losses you have suffered. I am nothing if not sympathetic.
My heart pounded... labored. My blood seemed too chill and thick to push through my veins.
My initial year of occupation—along with its judicious and much-talked-about executions—had inspired a new spirit of honesty in the land.
My last sight of myself was of a man utterly consumed by surprise, utterly ludicrous, utterly laughable with his popping eyes and hanging mouth. My relfection... was gone.
My revenge is just begun! I spread it over centuries, and time is on my side.
My toil must be in silence, and my efforts all in secret; for in this enlightened age, when men believe not even what they see, the doubting of wise men will be my greatest strength.
No man knows till he experiences it, what it is like to feel his own life-blood drawn away into the woman he loves.
No man knows till he has suffered from the night how sweet and dear to his heart and eye the morning can be.
No one but a woman can help a man when he is in trouble of the heart.
No one mourns when the arrogant pass.
No soldier ever wearies of receiving letters from home. The smallest detail was always of great interest to me and kept my memories from fading.
Not one of your best days. If I were you, I would start making the most of them.
Of all the darkened things in this domain of shadow, you are by far the dimmest.
Of what materials was I made, that I could thus resist so many shocks, which, like the turning of the wheel, continually renewed the torture? But I was doomed to live.
Once again... welcome to Barovia. Come freely. Die quickly; and leave something of the happiness you bring.
Perhaps I shall let Ceithlenn keep your teeth.
Perhaps one day you shall warrant my full attention.
Perhaps the rebels who come after you shall present a challenge.
Pikes and pates and black iron gates, the witch and the wight in shadows awaits.
Pray to your gods. If they do not answer, I will.
Previously, my interest in the Art had been that of an experimenting dilettante; now it occurred to me that some magical spell might afford the means to my heart’s desire.
Remember my friend, that knowledge is stronger than memory, and we should not trust the weaker.
Remember that I have power; you believe yourself miserable, but I can make you so wretched that the light of day will be hateful to you.
Rest well, dear ones. There are only devils lurking in the shadows.
Secret and safe in some hidden cache within me, the blackness was always ready to rush forth and resume gnawing at my soul like a starved monster.
See that you die with dignity; it is more than can be said for most.
Sergei’s sort of compassion was well placed for a priest, but a ruler cannot afford to be so indulgent.
She is one of the gods’ women fashioned by their own hands to show us mortals that there is a heaven where we can enter, and that its light can be here with us.
She was no longer that happy creature who in earlier youth wandered with me on the banks of the lake and talked with ecstasy of our future prospects.
She was sky and earth, air and music, sunlight without shadow.
She was springtime and summer rain, autumn color and winter stillness. And soon, she would be mine.
She was, without doubt, the most beautiful girl I had ever seen.
She wore the homespun costume of Barovia, but she wore it like royalty, and her copper hair shone like a crown.
Sleep has no place it can call its own.
Sleep is like death; it is a realm of nightmares.
So you fail to live up to expectations; how predictable.
Some have intended to plague me with hammer, stake, and holy symbols under the mistaken impression they were doing me a favor.
Souls and memories can do strange things during trance.
Stars glow hot above, cool darkness reigns below, and I soar carelessly between, master of the air.
Strange how nothingness seems to go on forever.
Such evil would not have come without some type of summoning on my part, which meant I had a portion of control over it.
Such scum are beyond any honorable death from a blade.
Take heart, little ones. I shall watch over you while you sleep.
Tell me, does it hurt terribly?
Tell me, where are your gods now?
Terror answers terror.
That look in your eyes; I’ve seen it before.
The armies I had commanded are gone now, but I will always uphold the legacy we brought to this land.
The Balinoks were overrun with savage druids worshipping pagan gods. One by one, I searched out and... civilized... their sacred fanes until even they were forced to acknowledge my lordship.
The blood is the life!
The burgomaster, if one could judge anything from his last mortal expression, never knew what hit him.
The clear skin, the great eyes—brighter than gems—and full dark lips had come together in such a way as to make all other women seem ugly by comparison.
The dead travel fast.
The fallen angel becomes a malignant devil. Yet even that enemy of God and man had friends and associates in his desolation; I am alone.
The first of those sorrows which are sent to wean us from the earth had visited her, and its dimming influence quenched her dearest smiles.
The goal of all life is death.
The Land is engorged with justice.
The last man who opposed me utterly lost his mind. One wonders which came first.
The laughter grew, filling the rooms, filling my head, I clapped my hands over my ears, dropping the dagger. Whatever was with me would not be vulnerable to such an insignificant weapon.
The life of a thing is in its blood.
The master needs not fear robbers who fear dogs.
The mist has risen high; the stars are gone.
The mists fell about you like a funeral shroud, and in that moment Barovia became your tomb.
The particular dilemma of when and if one should use force always seemed to plague the soldier-priests. Such moral puzzles held no appeal for me whatsoever.
The peace of the indifferent dead is held most in the mind of the living.
The people had managed to gather a gaggle of brats to present bouquets of flowers to me. During the wars I’d been forced to do many terrible things in the name of duty, but one must draw the line somewhere.
The time has come to prove yourself, friend. You know what to do.
The voices merged and separated around, above, through me. They took on weight with no substance and pressed upon me. The voices laughed at my pain, and in that sound they seemed to assume a single, huge shape.
The wolves of Mount Ghakis are ferocious, but I have yet to hear of one who could break through a handspan of oak.
The writer’s conclusion that love was a force that could not be successfully reproduced by magical methods struck me as being inanely smug. I tore the page out and summarily tossed it in the fire.
There are bad dreams for those who sleep unwisely.
There are darknesses in life and there are lights, and she is one of the lights, the light of all lights.
There are horrors beyond life’s edge that we do not suspect, and once in a while your evil prying may call them into range.
There are mysteries which men can only guess at, which age by age they may solve only in part.
There are no monsters; only sons, fathers, and kings. And there will be more dead tomorrow.
There is a reason why all things are as they are.
There is love in me the likes of which you have never seen. There is rage in me the likes of which you should never escape. If I am not satisfied in the one, I will indulge the other.
There is never nothing to lose.
There is no shame in weeping. Only do not give up; it spoils the fun.
There is none in all of Barovia whose honor you have more cause to trust.
There was perverse warmth to be found in his cooling life.
There will be pain for us all, but it will not be all pain, nor will this pain be the last.
They fought and screamed and died. Their blades passed through me as though I were a wraith with no substance or nerve.
They wish to be reassured about the noises in the cellar, and the window that should not have been open.
Thieves beware. I, Strahd, walk the land.
This is going to be easier than I thought.
This shall end the only way it can.
Those who break my laws rarely get the chance to repeat the offense.
Though sympathy alone can’t alter facts, it can help to make them more bearable.
To die, to be really dead, that must be glorious!
Tonight I will dance with the stars; tomorrow I will race along the forest carpet with my brothers, the wolves, or flow like smoke into secret places never touched by a man.
Truly there is no such thing as finality.
Was today’s violence unsatisfying? Perhaps tomorrow will do better.
We all have the power in our hands to kill, but most are too afraid to use it. The fearless ones control life itself.
We dread the young, because to them we are ghosts.
Whaever spoke to me was using their voices, hoping to frighten me by their very familiarity.
What is one less soul writhing in the muck?
What lies do you tell yourself before you close your eyes at night?
When the birds grow silent, there’s usually a good reason for it.
When you wake, you will be mine.
Whilst they played wits against me — against me who commanded nations, and intrigued for them, and fought for them, hundreds of years before they were born — I was countermining them.
Who are you, if not invaders, marauders, and peace-breakers?
With his heart stilled, the flow had slacked off, but there was yet much to be had. I put my lips to the wound and drank.
With how many things are we on the brink of becoming acquainted, if cowardice or carelessness did not restrain our inquiries.
You accuse me of murder; and yet you would, with a satisfied conscience, strike me down.
You are naught but mewling children armed for war.
You call yourselves heroes, but I know what you really are.
You feel the warmth leave their flesh. You are looking into their eyes. In that moment, you are a god.
You hate me; but your abhorrence cannot equal that with which I regard myself.
You have aided in thwarting me; now you shall come to my call.
You have no secrets from me. My spies have seen to that.
You must not be alone; for to be alone is to be full of fears amd alarms.
You purpose to kill me. How dare you sport thus with life? Do your duty towards me, and I will do mine towards you and the rest of mankind.
You remind me of my brother.
You shall find no sanctuary here, for I know every stone, every dark corner; this is my home. My home, and your graveyard.
You shall know now, as others have learned in full, what it is to cross my path.
You should have turned back when you had the chance.
Your blood shall run as cold as mine.
Your determination in the face of certain death is a tawdry spectacle.
Your life is not worth the worms that shall devour it.